Three distint numeric types:

- integers numbers
- floationg point numbers
- complex numbers

 In addition, Booleans are a subtype of integers. Integers have unlimited precision. Floating point numbers are usually implemented using  double in C

 All numeric types (except complex) support the following operations, sorted by ascending priority (all numeric operations have a higher priority than comparison operations):

所有数值类型（除复数）支持以下操作，按升序排序（所有数字操作都比比较操作具有更高的优先级）：

Operations | Result | Notes | Full documentation |
-----      | -----  | ----- | ---- 
x + y	|sum of x and y	| 
x - y	|difference of x and y|  
x * y	|product of x and y	 
x / y	|quotient of x and y	
x // y	|floored quotient of x and y|	(1)	|
x % y	|remainder of x / y|	(2)	| 
-x	|x negated	 	 
+x	|x unchanged	 
abs(x)	|absolute value or magnitude of x|	|	abs()
int(x)	|x converted to integer|	(3)(6)	|int()
float(x)	|x converted to floating point|	(4)(6)	|float() |
complex(re, im)	|a complex number with real part re, imaginary part im. im defaults to zero.|	(6)|	complex() 
c.conjugate()	|conjugate of the complex number c	
divmod(x, y)	|the pair (x // y, x % y)|	(2)|	divmod() 
pow(x, y)	|x to the power y	|(5)|	pow() 
x ** y	|x to the power y|	(5)


Notes:

1. Also referred to as integer division. The resultant value is a whole integer, though the result’s type is not necessarily int. The result is always rounded towards minus infinity: 1//2 is 0, (-1)//2 is -1, 1//(-2) is -1, and (-1)//(-2) is 0.

2. Not for complex numbers. Instead convert to floats using abs() if appropriate.

3. Conversion from floating point to integer may round or truncate as in C; see functions math.floor() and math.ceil() for well-defined conversions.

4. float also accepts the strings “nan” and “inf” with an optional prefix “+” or “-” for Not a Number (NaN) and positive or negative infinity.

5. Python defines pow(0, 0) and 0 ** 0 to be 1, as is common for programming languages.

6. The numeric literals accepted include the digits 0 to 9 or any Unicode equivalent (code points with the Nd property).

All numbers.Real types (int and float) also include the following operations:

Operations | Result
---- | ---
math.trunc(x)	|x truncated to Integral
round(x[, n])	|x rounded to n digits, rounding half to even. If n is omitted, it defaults to 0.
math.floor(x)	|the greatest Integral <= x
math.ceil(x)	|the least Integral >= x

Ex:
```python
>>> import math
>>> math.trunc(1.1)
1
>>> round(1.1)
1
>>> math.floor(1.1)
1
>>> math.floor(1.9)
1
>>> math.floor()
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "<pyshell#6>", line 1, in <module>
    math.floor()
TypeError: floor() takes exactly one argument (0 given)
>>> math.ceil(1.1)
2
```

4.4.1. Bitwise Operations on Integer Types (位操作)

Bitwise operations only make sense for integers. Negative numbers are treated as their 2’s complement value (this assumes that there are enough bits so that no overflow occurs during the operation).

The priorities of the binary bitwise operations are all lower than the numeric operations and higher than the comparisons; the unary operation ~ has the same priority as the other unary numeric operations (+ and -).

This table lists the bitwise operations sorted in ascending priority:(加 \ 使 | 不转义)

Operation | Result | Notes
---- | ---- | ----
x \| y	| bitwise or of x and y	 
x ^ y	|bitwise exclusive or of x and y	 
x & y	|bitwise and of x and y	 
x << n	|x shifted left by n bits	|(1)(2)
x >> n	|x shifted right by n bits	|(1)(3)
~x	    | the bits of x inverted	 

Notes:

1. Negative shift counts are illegal and cause a ValueError to be raised.
2. A left shift by n bits is equivalent to multiplication by pow(2, n) without overflow check.
3. A right shift by n bits is equivalent to division by pow(2, n) without overflow check.

4.4.2. Additional Methods on Integer Types¶

The int type implements the numbers.Integral abstract base class. In addition, it provides a few more methods:

int.bit_length()

- Return the number of bits necessary to represent an integer in binary, excluding the sign and leading zeros:

- More precisely, if x is nonzero, then x.bit_length() is the unique positive integer k such that 2**(k-1) <= abs(x) < 2**k. Equivalently, when abs(x) is small enough to have a correctly rounded logarithm, then k = 1 + int(log(abs(x), 2)). If x is zero, then x.bit_length() returns 0.


```python
>>> a = 1
>>> bin(a)
'0b1'
>>> a.bit_length()
1
>>> 38.bit_length()
SyntaxError: invalid syntax
>>> a = 38
>>> a.bit_length()
6
>>> bin(a)
'0b100110'
>>> a = 0
>>> bin(a)
'0b0'
>>> a.bit_length()
0
```
Equivalent to:
```python
>>> def test_bit_length(self):
	s = bin(self)
	s = s.lstrip('-0b')
	return len(s)

>>> a = 38
>>> a.test_bit_length()
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "<pyshell#6>", line 1, in <module>
    a.test_bit_length()
AttributeError: 'int' object has no attribute 'test_bit_length'
>>> test_bit_length(a)
6
```

int.to_bytes(length, byteorder, *, signed=False) ???

Return an array of bytes representing an integer.
```python
>>> (1024).to_bytes(2, byteorder='big')
b'\x04\x00'
>>> (1024).to_bytes(10, byteorder='big')
b'\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x04\x00'
>>> (-1024).to_bytes(10, byteorder='big', signed=True)
b'\xff\xff\xff\xff\xff\xff\xff\xff\xfc\x00'
>>> x = 1000
>>> x.to_bytes((x.bit_length() + 7) // 8, byteorder='little')
b'\xe8\x03'
```

classmethod int.from_bytes(bytes, byteorder, *, signed=False)

Return the integer represented by the given array of bytes.
```python
>>> int.from_bytes(b'\x00\x10', byteorder='big')
16
>>> int.from_bytes(b'\x00\x10', byteorder='little')
4096
>>> int.from_bytes(b'\xfc\x00', byteorder='big', signed=True)
-1024
>>> int.from_bytes(b'\xfc\x00', byteorder='big', signed=False)
64512
>>> int.from_bytes([255, 0, 0], byteorder='big')
16711680
```

4.4.3. Additional Methods on Float

The float type implements the numbers.Real abstract base class. float also has the following additional methods.

float.as_integer_ratio()

Return a pair of integers whose ratio is exactly equal to the original float and with a positive denominator. Raises OverflowError on infinities and a ValueError on NaNs.
```python
>>> (1.2).as_integer_ratio()
(5404319552844595, 4503599627370496)
>>> (4.555).as_integer_ratio()
(641059259458519, 140737488355328)
>>> (1.5).as_integer_ratio()
(3, 2)
>>> # why
>>> # float point numbers 在计算器中表达为二进制小数(binary)
>>> 0.1 == 0.1
True
>>> 0.1 == 0.1000000000000000055511151231257827021181583404541015625
True
>>> # 计算机上显示的是近似值
>>> 5404319552844595 / 4503599627370496
1.2
```

float.is_integer()

Return True if the float instance is finite with integral value, and False otherwise:
```python
>>> (-2.00).is_integer()
True
>>> (3.252).is_integer()
False
```

float.hex()

Return a representation of a floating-point number as a hexadecimal string. For finite floating-point numbers, this representation will always include a leading 0x and a trailing p and exponent.
```python
>>> (1.1).hex()
'0x1.199999999999ap+0'
>>> (1.2).hex()
'0x1.3333333333333p+0'
```

classmethod float.fromhex(s)

Class method to return the float represented by a hexadecimal string s. The string s may have leading and trailing whitespace.
```python
>>> float.fromhex('0x3.a7p10')
3740.0
>>> float.hex(3740.0)
'0x1.d380000000000p+11'
>>> hex(3740.0)
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "<pyshell#12>", line 1, in <module>
    hex(3740.0)
TypeError: 'float' object cannot be interpreted as an integer
```

4.4.4. Hashing of numeric types

For numbers x and y, possibly of different types, it’s a requirement that hash(x) == hash(y) whenever x == y (see the __hash__() method documentation for more details). For ease of implementation and efficiency across a variety of numeric types (including int, float, decimal.Decimal and fractions.Fraction) Python’s hash for numeric types is based on a single mathematical function that’s defined for any rational number, and hence applies to all instances of int and fractions.Fraction, and all finite instances of float and decimal.Decimal. Essentially, this function is given by reduction modulo P for a fixed prime P. The value of P is made available to Python as the modulus attribute of sys.hash_info.


    # 哈希类型，即在原地不能改变的变量类型，不可变类型。可利用hash函数查看其hash值，也可以作为字典的key
    "数字类型：int, float, decimal.Decimal, fractions.Fraction, complex"
    "字符串类型：str, bytes"
    "元组：tuple"
    "冻结集合：frozenset"
    "布尔类型：True, False"
    "None"
    # 不可hash类型：原地可变类型：list、dict和set。它们不可以作为字典的key。