Python supports a concept of iteration over containers. This is implemented using two distinct methods; these are used to allow user-defined classes to support iteration. Sequences, described below in more detail, always support the iteration methods.

One method needs to be defined for container objects to provide iteration support:

container.__iter__()

Return an iterator object. The object is required to support the iterator protocol described below. If a container supports different types of iteration, additional methods can be provided to specifically request iterators for those iteration types. (An example of an object supporting multiple forms of iteration would be a tree structure which supports both breadth-first and depth-first traversal.) This method corresponds to the tp_iter slot of the type structure for Python objects in the Python/C API.

The iterator objects themselves are required to support the following two methods, which together form the iterator protocol:

- iterator.__iter__()
Return the iterator object itself. This is required to allow both containers and iterators to be used with the for and in statements. This method corresponds to the tp_iter slot of the type structure for Python objects in the Python/C API.

- iterator.__next__()
Return the next item from the container. If there are no further items, raise the StopIteration exception. This method corresponds to the tp_iternext slot of the type structure for Python objects in the Python/C API.

Python defines several iterator objects to support iteration over general and specific sequence types, dictionaries, and other more specialized forms. The specific types are not important beyond their implementation of the iterator protocol.

Once an iterator’s __next__() method raises StopIteration, it must continue to do so on subsequent calls. Implementations that do not obey this property are deemed broken.

```python
>>> a = [1,2,3,4]
>>> a.__iter__()
<list_iterator object at 0x0000025EEF3947B8>
>>> next(a)
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "<pyshell#2>", line 1, in <module>
    next(a)
TypeError: 'list' object is not an iterator
>>> b = a.__iter__()
>>> next(b)
1
>>> next(b)
2
>>> # a.__iter__() __inter__()返回一个迭代器 a需要为可迭代的对象
>>> c = [1,2,3].__iter__()
>>> next(c)
1
>>> next(c)
2
>>> d = 2.__iter__()
SyntaxError: invalid syntax
>>> a
[1, 2, 3, 4]
>>> d
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "<pyshell#12>", line 1, in <module>
    d
NameError: name 'd' is not defined
>>> c.__next__()
3
>>> a.__next__()
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "<pyshell#14>", line 1, in <module>
    a.__next__()
AttributeError: 'list' object has no attribute '__next__'
>>> b.__next__()
3
>>> dir(b)
['__class__', '__delattr__', '__dir__', '__doc__', '__eq__', '__format__', '__ge__', '__getattribute__', '__gt__', '__hash__', '__init__', '__iter__', '__le__', '__length_hint__', '__lt__', '__ne__', '__new__', '__next__', '__reduce__', '__reduce_ex__', '__repr__', '__setattr__', '__setstate__', '__sizeof__', '__str__', '__subclasshook__']
>>> # b has __iter__ and __next__
>>> dir(a)
['__add__', '__class__', '__contains__', '__delattr__', '__delitem__', '__dir__', '__doc__', '__eq__', '__format__', '__ge__', '__getattribute__', '__getitem__', '__gt__', '__hash__', '__iadd__', '__imul__', '__init__', '__iter__', '__le__', '__len__', '__lt__', '__mul__', '__ne__', '__new__', '__reduce__', '__reduce_ex__', '__repr__', '__reversed__', '__rmul__', '__setattr__', '__setitem__', '__sizeof__', '__str__', '__subclasshook__', 'append', 'clear', 'copy', 'count', 'extend', 'index', 'insert', 'pop', 'remove', 'reverse', 'sort']
```

4.5.1. Generator Types

Python’s generators provide a convenient way to implement the iterator protocol. If a container object’s __iter__() method is implemented as a generator, it will automatically return an iterator object (technically, a generator object) supplying the __iter__() and __next__() methods. More information about generators can be found in the documentation for the yield expression.