Textual data in Python is handled with str objects, or strings. Strings are immutable sequences of Unicode code points. String literals are written in a variety of ways:

- Single quotes: 'allows embedded "double" quotes'
- Double quotes: "allows embedded 'single' quotes".
- Triple quoted: '''Three single quotes''', """Three double quotes"""

```python
>>> a = 'd456asd"sdasd"sdas'
>>> a
'd456asd"sdasd"sdas'
>>> a = "sdasdasd1256'sadasd'456"
>>> a
"sdasdasd1256'sadasd'456"
>>> a = """ three double qutoes"""
>>> a
' three double qutoes'
```

Triple quoted strings may span multiple lines - all associated whitespace will be included in the string literal.

String literals that are part of a single expression and have only whitespace between them will be implicitly converted to a single string literal. That is, ("spam " "eggs") == "spam eggs".

See String and Bytes literals for more about the various forms of string literal, including supported escape sequences, and the r (“raw”) prefix that disables most escape sequence processing.

Strings may also be created from other objects using the str constructor.

Since there is no separate “character” type, indexing a string produces strings of length 1. That is, for a non-empty string s, s[0] == s[0:1].

There is also no mutable string type, but str.join() or io.StringIO can be used to efficiently construct strings from multiple fragments.

Changed in version 3.3: For backwards compatibility with the Python 2 series, the u prefix is once again permitted on string literals. It has no effect on the meaning of string literals and cannot be combined with the r prefix.

```python
>>> a = u'str'
>>> a
'str'
>>> s = '12345'
>>> s[0]
'1'
>>> s[1]
'2'
>>> s[6]
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "<pyshell#5>", line 1, in <module>
    s[6]
IndexError: string index out of range
>>> s[5]
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "<pyshell#6>", line 1, in <module>
    s[5]
IndexError: string index out of range
>>> s[4]
'5'
```

class str(object=”)
class str(object=b”, encoding=’utf-8’, errors=’strict’)

Return a string version of object. If object is not provided, returns the empty string. Otherwise, the behavior of str() depends on whether encoding or errors is given, as follows.

If neither encoding nor errors is given, str(object) returns object.__str__(), which is the “informal” or nicely printable string representation of object. For string objects, this is the string itself. If object does not have a __str__() method, then str() falls back to returning repr(object).

If at least one of encoding or errors is given, object should be a bytes-like object (e.g. bytes or bytearray). In this case, if object is a bytes (or bytearray) object, then str(bytes, encoding, errors) is equivalent to bytes.decode(encoding, errors). Otherwise, the bytes object underlying the buffer object is obtained before calling bytes.decode(). See Binary Sequence Types — bytes, bytearray, memoryview and Buffer Protocol for information on buffer objects.

Passing a bytes object to str() without the encoding or errors arguments falls under the first case of returning the informal string representation (see also the -b command-line option to Python). For example:

```python
>>> s = 'asdw'
>>> s.__str__()
'asdw'
>>> dir(s)
['__add__', '__class__', '__contains__', '__delattr__', '__dir__', '__doc__', '__eq__', '__format__', '__ge__', '__getattribute__', '__getitem__', '__getnewargs__', '__gt__', '__hash__', '__init__', '__iter__', '__le__', '__len__', '__lt__', '__mod__', '__mul__', '__ne__', '__new__', '__reduce__', '__reduce_ex__', '__repr__', '__rmod__', '__rmul__', '__setattr__', '__sizeof__', '__str__', '__subclasshook__', 'capitalize', 'casefold', 'center', 'count', 'encode', 'endswith', 'expandtabs', 'find', 'format', 'format_map', 'index', 'isalnum', 'isalpha', 'isdecimal', 'isdigit', 'isidentifier', 'islower', 'isnumeric', 'isprintable', 'isspace', 'istitle', 'isupper', 'join', 'ljust', 'lower', 'lstrip', 'maketrans', 'partition', 'replace', 'rfind', 'rindex', 'rjust', 'rpartition', 'rsplit', 'rstrip', 'split', 'splitlines', 'startswith', 'strip', 'swapcase', 'title', 'translate', 'upper', 'zfill']
>>> __str__ in dir(s)
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "<pyshell#3>", line 1, in <module>
    __str__ in dir(s)
NameError: name '__str__' is not defined
>>> '__str__' in dir(s)
True
>>> class A:
	def __str__(self):
		return "rerurn __str__"
	def __repr__(self):
		return "return __repr__"

	
>>> a = A()
>>> str(a)
'rerurn __str__'
>>> class B:
	def __repr__(self):
		return "return __repr__"

	
>>> b = B()
>>> str(b)
'return __repr__'
```

4.7.1. String Methods

Strings implement all of the common sequence operations, along with the additional methods described below.

Strings also support two styles of string formatting, one providing a large degree of flexibility and customization (see str.format(), Format String Syntax and Custom String Formatting) and the other based on C printf style formatting that handles a narrower range of types and is slightly harder to use correctly, but is often faster for the cases it can handle (printf-style String Formatting).

The Text Processing Services section of the standard library covers a number of other modules that provide various text related utilities (including regular expression support in the re module).

str.capitalize()

Return a copy of the string with its first character capitalized and the rest lowercased.
```python
>>> s = "str chr"
>>> s.capitalize()
'Str chr'
>>> # 第一个字符大写
```

str.casefold()

Return a casefolded copy of the string. Casefolded strings may be used for caseless matching.

Casefolding is similar to lowercasing but more aggressive because it is intended to remove all case distinctions in a string. For example, the German lowercase letter 'ß' is equivalent to "ss". Since it is already lowercase, lower() would do nothing to 'ß'; casefold() converts it to "ss".

The casefolding algorithm is described in section 3.13 of the Unicode Standard.
```python
>>> s = "Str Chr"
>>> s.casefold()
'str chr'
>>> s = "ß"
>>> s.casefold()
'ss'
>>> # 大写转小写 对许多语言支持
```

str.center(width[, fillchar])

Return centered in a string of length width. Padding is done using the specified fillchar (default is an ASCII space). The original string is returned if width is less than or equal to len(s).
```python
>>> s.center(20, ' ')
'      Str Chr       '
>>> s1 = s.center(20, ' ')
>>> len(s1)
20
>>> s2 = s.center(19, '1')
>>> s2
'111111Str Chr111111'
>>> len(s2)
19
```

str.count(sub[, start[, end]])

Return the number of non-overlapping occurrences of substring sub in the range [start, end]. Optional arguments start and end are interpreted as in slice notation.

```python
>>> s = "strstrtssdasasd"
>>> s.count('s')
6
>>> s.count('s', 2)
5
>>> s.count('s', 2, -1)
5
>>> s.count('s', 2, -2)
4
```

str.encode(encoding=”utf-8”, errors=”strict”)

Return an encoded version of the string as a bytes object. Default encoding is 'utf-8'. errors may be given to set a different error handling scheme. The default for errors is 'strict', meaning that encoding errors raise a UnicodeError. Other possible values are 'ignore', 'replace', 'xmlcharrefreplace', 'backslashreplace' and any other name registered via codecs.register_error(), see section Error Handlers. For a list of possible encodings, see section Standard Encodings.

```python
>>> s = 'buglan'
>>> s.encode
<built-in method encode of str object at 0x0000022885454EA0>
>>> s.encode()
b'buglan'
>>> 
>>> s.encode('gbk')
b'buglan'
```

str.endswith(suffix[, start[, end]])

Return True if the string ends with the specified suffix, otherwise return False. suffix can also be a tuple of suffixes to look for. With optional start, test beginning at that position. With optional end, stop comparing at that position.

Python endswith() 方法用于判断字符串是否以指定后缀结尾，如果以指定后缀结尾返回True，否则返回False。可选参数"start"与"end"为检索字符串的开始与结束位置。

```python
str = "this is string example....wow!!!";

suffix = "wow!!!";
print str.endswith(suffix);
print str.endswith(suffix,20);

suffix = "is";
print str.endswith(suffix, 2, 4);
print str.endswith(suffix, 2, 6);
```

str.expandtabs(tabsize=8)

Return a copy of the string where all tab characters are replaced by one or more spaces, depending on the current column and the given tab size. Tab positions occur every tabsize characters (default is 8, giving tab positions at columns 0, 8, 16 and so on). To expand the string, the current column is set to zero and the string is examined character by character. If the character is a tab (\t), one or more space characters are inserted in the result until the current column is equal to the next tab position. (The tab character itself is not copied.) If the character is a newline (\n) or return (\r), it is copied and the current column is reset to zero. Any other character is copied unchanged and the current column is incremented by one regardless of how the character is represented when printed.
```python
>>> s = '\ttab'
>>> s.expandtabs()
'        tab'
>>> # \t -> 8个空格(默认)
>>> s.expandtabs(3)
'   tab'
```

str.find(sub[, start[, end]])

Return the lowest index in the string where substring sub is found within the slice s[start:end]. Optional arguments start and end are interpreted as in slice notation. Return -1 if sub is not found.
```python
>>> s = 'strstring'
>>> s.find('str')
0
>>> s.find('s')
0
>>> s.find('s', 1)
3
>>> s.find('s', 1, 2)
-1
>>> # while not found return -1
```

str.format(*args, **kwargs)

Perform a string formatting operation. The string on which this method is called can contain literal text or replacement fields delimited by braces {}. Each replacement field contains either the numeric index of a positional argument, or the name of a keyword argument. Returns a copy of the string where each replacement field is replaced with the string value of the corresponding argument.
```python
>>> "{}{}".format('1',2)
'12'
```

str.format_map(mapping)

Similar to str.format(**mapping), except that mapping is used directly and not copied to a dict. This is useful if for example mapping is a dict subclass:
```python
>>> class Default(dict):
...     def __missing__(self, key):
...         return key
...
>>> '{name} was born in {country}'.format_map(Default(name='Guido'))
'Guido was born in country'
```

str.index(sub[, start[, end]])

Like find(), but raise ValueError when the substring is not found.
```python
>>> s = "stringstring"
>>> s.index('s')
0
>>> s.index('s',1)
6
>>> s.index('s', 1, 5)
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "<pyshell#4>", line 1, in <module>
    s.index('s', 1, 5)
ValueError: substring not found
>>> # 没找到使返回ValuError 而 find() 返回 -1
```

str.isalnum()

Return true if all characters in the string are alphanumeric and there is at least one character, false otherwise. A character c is alphanumeric if one of the following returns True: c.isalpha(), c.isdecimal(), c.isdigit(), or c.isnumeric().

如果 string 至少有一个字符并且所有字符都是字母或数字则返回 True,否则返回 False

```python
>>> s = "sadasd12313"
>>> s.isalnum()
True
>>> s = "asdasdas sad"
>>> s.isalnum()
False
```

str.isalpha()

Return true if all characters in the string are alphabetic and there is at least one character, false otherwise. Alphabetic characters are those characters defined in the Unicode character database as “Letter”, i.e., those with general category property being one of “Lm”, “Lt”, “Lu”, “Ll”, or “Lo”. Note that this is different from the “Alphabetic” property defined in the Unicode Standard.

isalpha() 方法检测字符串是否只由字母组成。

```python
>>> s = "str"
>>> s.isalpha()
True
>>> s = "str "
>>> s.isalpha()
False
```

str.isdecimal()

Return true if all characters in the string are decimal characters and there is at least one character, false otherwise. Decimal characters are those that can be used to form numbers in base 10, e.g. U+0660, ARABIC-INDIC DIGIT ZERO. Formally a decimal character is a character in the Unicode General Category “Nd”.

isdecimal() 方法检查字符串是否只包含十进制字符。这种方法只存在于unicode对象。

```python
>>> s = "123456"
>>> s.isdecimal()
True
>>> s = "this456"
>>> s.isdecimal()
False
>>> 
```

str.isdigit()

Return true if all characters in the string are digits and there is at least one character, false otherwise. Digits include decimal characters and digits that need special handling, such as the compatibility superscript digits. This covers digits which cannot be used to form numbers in base 10, like the Kharosthi numbers. Formally, a digit is a character that has the property value Numeric_Type=Digit or Numeric_Type=Decimal.

Python isdigit() 方法检测字符串是否只由数字组成。

```python
>>> s = "2+j"
>>> s.isdigit
<built-in method isdigit of str object at 0x000001B27EF14EA0>
>>> s.isdigit()
False
>>> s = '465'
>>> s.isdigit()
True
```

str.isidentifier()

Return true if the string is a valid identifier according to the language definition, section Identifiers and keywords.

Use keyword.iskeyword() to test for reserved identifiers such as def and class.

Python islower() 方法检测字符串是否由小写字母组成。

```python
>>> s = 'this is low'
>>> s.islower()
True
>>> s = "This is"
>>> s.islower()
False
```

str.isnumeric()

Return true if all characters in the string are numeric characters, and there is at least one character, false otherwise. Numeric characters include digit characters, and all characters that have the Unicode numeric value property, e.g. U+2155, VULGAR FRACTION ONE FIFTH. Formally, numeric characters are those with the property value Numeric_Type=Digit, Numeric_Type=Decimal or Numeric_Type=Numeric.

```python
>>> s = 'asdas'
>>> s.isnumeric()
False

>>> s = '455'
>>> s.isnumeric()
True
```

str.isprintable()

Return true if all characters in the string are printable or the string is empty, false otherwise. Nonprintable characters are those characters defined in the Unicode character database as “Other” or “Separator”, excepting the ASCII space (0x20) which is considered printable. (Note that printable characters in this context are those which should not be escaped when repr() is invoked on a string. It has no bearing on the handling of strings written to sys.stdout or sys.stderr.)

判断字符串的所有字符都是可打印字符或字符串为空

```python
>>> s = "abc123"
>>> s.isprintable()
True
>>> s = "\t123"
>>> s.isprintable()
False
```

str.isspace()

Return true if there are only whitespace characters in the string and there is at least one character, false otherwise. Whitespace characters are those characters defined in the Unicode character database as “Other” or “Separator” and those with bidirectional property being one of “WS”, “B”, or “S”.

如果 string 中只包含空格，则返回 True，否则返回 False.

```python
>>> s = "anc"
>>> s.isspace()
False
>>> s = "1 1"
>>> s.isspace()
False
>>> s = "   "
>>> s.isspace()
True
```

str.istitle()

Return true if the string is a titlecased string and there is at least one character, for example uppercase characters may only follow uncased characters and lowercase characters only cased ones. Return false otherwise.

 istitle() 方法检测字符串中所有的单词拼写首字母是否为大写，且其他字母为小写。

```python
>>> s = "This Is Title"
>>> s.istitle()
True
>>> s = "This is not title"
>>> s.istitle()
False
```

str.isupper()

Return true if all cased characters [4] in the string are uppercase and there is at least one cased character, false otherwise.

Python isupper() 方法检测字符串中所有的字母是否都为大写。

```python
>>> s = "SUPPER MAN"
>>> s.isupper
<built-in method isupper of str object at 0x000001B27EF059B0>
>>> s.isupper()
True
>>> s = "USD1263a"
>>> s.isupper()
False
```

str.join(iterable)

Return a string which is the concatenation of the strings in iterable. A TypeError will be raised if there are any non-string values in iterable, including bytes objects. The separator between elements is the string providing this method.

join() 方法用于将序列中的元素以指定的字符连接生成一个新的字符串。

```python
>>> str = "   "
>>> s = '123456'
>>> str.join(s)
'1   2   3   4   5   6'
>>> str = '-'
>>> str.join(s)
'1-2-3-4-5-6'
```

str.ljust(width[, fillchar])

Return the string left justified in a string of length width. Padding is done using the specified fillchar (default is an ASCII space). The original string is returned if width is less than or equal to len(s).

ljust() 方法返回一个原字符串左对齐,并使用空格填充至指定长度的新字符串。如果指定的长度小于原字符串的长度则返回原字符串

```python
>>> s = "stringstring"
>>> s.ljust(50)
'stringstring                                      '
>>> s.ljust(100, '*')
'stringstring****************************************************************************************'
```

str.lower()

Return a copy of the string with all the cased characters [4] converted to lowercase.

The lowercasing algorithm used is described in section 3.13 of the Unicode Standard.

lower() 方法转换字符串中所有大写字符为小写。

```python
>>> s = "SUp"
>>> s.lower()
'sup'
```

str.lstrip([chars])

Return a copy of the string with leading characters removed. The chars argument is a string specifying the set of characters to be removed. If omitted or None, the chars argument defaults to removing whitespace. The chars argument is not a prefix; rather, all combinations of its values are stripped:

lstrip() 方法用于截掉字符串左边的空格或指定字符。

```python
>>> s = "   gstringstring  sds"
>>> s.lstrip()
'gstringstring  sds'
>>> s.lstript('g')
>>> s = "0000000a"
>>> s.lstript('0')
>>> s.lstrip('0')
'a'
>>> s.lstrip('2')
'0000000a'
```

static str.maketrans(x[, y[, z]])

This static method returns a translation table usable for str.translate().

If there is only one argument, it must be a dictionary mapping Unicode ordinals (integers) or characters (strings of length 1) to Unicode ordinals, strings (of arbitrary lengths) or None. Character keys will then be converted to ordinals.

If there are two arguments, they must be strings of equal length, and in the resulting dictionary, each character in x will be mapped to the character at the same position in y. If there is a third argument, it must be a string, whose characters will be mapped to None in the result.

maketrans() 方法用于创建字符映射的转换表，对于接受两个参数的最简单的调用方式，第一个参数是字符串，表示需要转换的字符，第二个参数也是字符串表示转换的目标。

注：两个字符串的长度必须相同，为一一对应的关系。

```python
>>> a = 'a'
>>> b = 'b'
>>> tran = str.maketrans(a,b)
>>> s = "apple"
>>> str.translate(tran)
'-'
>>> s.translate(tran)
'bpple'
```

str.partition(sep)

Split the string at the first occurrence of sep, and return a 3-tuple containing the part before the separator, the separator itself, and the part after the separator. If the separator is not found, return a 3-tuple containing the string itself, followed by two empty strings.

partition() 方法用来根据指定的分隔符将字符串进行分割。

如果字符串包含指定的分隔符，则返回一个3元的元组，第一个为分隔符左边的子串，第二个为分隔符本身，第三个为分隔符右边的子串。

```python
>>> s.partition(' ')
('1', ' ', '1 1')
>>> s = "buglan"
>>> s.partition('lan')
('bug', 'lan', '')
```

str.replace(old, new[, count])

Return a copy of the string with all occurrences of substring old replaced by new. If the optional argument count is given, only the first count occurrences are replaced.

replace() 方法把字符串中的 old（旧字符串） 替换成 new(新字符串)，如果指定第三个参数count，则替换不超过 count 次。

```python
>>> s = "apple"
>>> s.replace("p", "b")
'abble'
>>> s.replace('p', 'a', 1)
'aaple'
```

str.rfind(sub[, start[, end]])

Return the highest index in the string where substring sub is found, such that sub is contained within s[start:end]. Optional arguments start and end are interpreted as in slice notation. Return -1 on failure.

rfind() 返回字符串最后一次出现的位置(从右向左查询)，如果没有匹配项则返回-1。

```python
>>> s = "apple"
>>> s.rfind('p')
2
>>> s.refind('e')
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "<pyshell#11>", line 1, in <module>
    s.refind('e')
AttributeError: 'str' object has no attribute 'refind'
>>> s.rfind('e')
4
>>> s = 'abcde'
>>> s.rfind('a')
0
>>> s.rfind('e')
4
>>> s = "aaaaa"
>>> s.rfind('a')
4
>>> s.find('a')
0
>>> s.rfind('a', 2)
4
>>> s.rfind('a', 2, 3)
2
```

str.rindex(sub[, start[, end]])

Like rfind() but raises ValueError when the substring sub is not found

rindex() 返回子字符串 str 在字符串中最后出现的位置，如果没有匹配的字符串会报异常，你可以指定可选参数[beg:end]设置查找的区间。

```python
>>> s = 'apple'
>>> s.rindex('a')
0
>>> s = 'aaaa'
>>> s.rindex('a')
3
```

str.rjust(width[, fillchar])

Return the string right justified in a string of length width. Padding is done using the specified fillchar (default is an ASCII space). The original string is returned if width is less than or equal to len(s).

 rjust() 返回一个原字符串右对齐,并使用空格填充至长度 width 的新字符串。如果指定的长度小于字符串的长度则返回原字符串。

 ```python
>>> s = "asdasd      "
>>> s.rjust(20, '0')
'00000000asdasd      '
>>> s.rjust(30, ' ')
'                  asdasd      '
 ```

str.rpartition(sep)

Split the string at the last occurrence of sep, and return a 3-tuple containing the part before the separator, the separator itself, and the part after the separator. If the separator is not found, return a 3-tuple containing two empty strings, followed by the string itself.

类似于 partition()函数,不过是从右边开始查找.

```python
>>> s = 'buglan'
>>> s.rpartition('lan')
('bug', 'lan', '')
>>> s.partition('lan')
('bug', 'lan', '')
>>> # 只是从right  -> left
```

str.rsplit(sep=None, maxsplit=-1)

Return a list of the words in the string, using sep as the delimiter string. If maxsplit is given, at most maxsplit splits are done, the rightmost ones. If sep is not specified or None, any whitespace string is a separator. Except for splitting from the right, rsplit() behaves like split() which is described in detail below.

rsplit()通过指定分隔符对字符串进行切片，如果参数num 有指定值，则仅分隔 num 个子字符串 right -> left

```python
>>> s = "apple banna fuc"
>>> s.split(' ')
['apple', 'banna', 'fuc']
>>> s.split(' ', 0)
['apple banna fuc']
>>> s.split(' ', 2)
['apple', 'banna', 'fuc']
>>> s.rsplit(' ', 1)
['apple banna', 'fuc']
>>> s.split(' ', 1)
['apple', 'banna fuc']
```

str.rstrip([chars])
Return a copy of the string with trailing characters removed. The chars argument is a string specifying the set of characters to be removed. If omitted or None, the chars argument defaults to removing whitespace. The chars argument is not a suffix; rather, all combinations of its values are stripped:

rstrip() 删除 string 字符串末尾的指定字符（默认为空格）

```python
>>> s = "apple   "
>>> s.rstrip()
'apple'
>>> s = "apple aaaa"
>>> s.rstrip('a')
'apple '
```

str.split(sep=None, maxsplit=-1)

Return a list of the words in the string, using sep as the delimiter string. If maxsplit is given, at most maxsplit splits are done (thus, the list will have at most maxsplit+1 elements). If maxsplit is not specified or -1, then there is no limit on the number of splits (all possible splits are made).

If sep is given, consecutive delimiters are not grouped together and are deemed to delimit empty strings (for example, '1,,2'.split(',') returns ['1', '', '2']). The sep argument may consist of multiple characters (for example, '1<>2<>3'.split('<>') returns ['1', '2', '3']). Splitting an empty string with a specified separator returns [''].

split()通过指定分隔符对字符串进行切片，如果参数maxsplit 有指定值，则仅分隔 maxsplit 个子字符串

```python
>>> '1,2,3'.split(',')
['1', '2', '3']
>>> '1,2,3'.split(',', maxsplit=1)
['1', '2,3']
>>> '1,2,,3,'.split(',')
['1', '2', '', '3', '']
```

str.splitlines([keepends])

Return a list of the lines in the string, breaking at line boundaries. Line breaks are not included in the resulting list unless keepends is given and true.

This method splits on the following line boundaries. In particular, the boundaries are a superset of universal newlines.

splitlines() 按照行('\r', '\r\n', \n')分隔，返回一个包含各行作为元素的列表，如果参数 keepends 为 False，不包含换行符，如果为 True，则保留换行符。

Representation | Description | 描述
---- | ----| ----
\n	|Line Feed | 换行符
\r	|Carriage Return | 回车
\r\n	|Carriage Return + Line Feed | 回车/换行
\v or \x0b	|Line Tabulation | 线表
\f or \x0c	|Form Feed | 换页
\x1c	|File Separator | 文件分隔符
\x1d	|Group Separator | 组分隔符
\x1e	|Record Separator | 记录分隔符
\x85	|Next Line (C1 Control Code) | 下一行（C1控制代码）
\u2028	|Line Separator | 行分隔符
\u2029	|Paragraph Separator | 段落分隔符

```python
>>> s = "ab c\n\nde fg \rk1\r\b"
>>> s.splitlines()
['ab c', '', 'de fg ', 'k1', '\x08']
>>> s.splitlines(True)
['ab c\n', '\n', 'de fg \r', 'k1\r', '\x08']
>>> 'ab c\n\nde fg\rkl\r\n'.splitlines()
['ab c', '', 'de fg', 'kl']
>>> 'ab c\n\nde fg\rkl\r\n'.splitlines(keepends=True)
['ab c\n', '\n', 'de fg\r', 'kl\r\n']
```

str.startswith(prefix[, start[, end]])

Return True if string starts with the prefix, otherwise return False. prefix can also be a tuple of prefixes to look for. With optional start, test string beginning at that position. With optional end, stop comparing string at that position.

 startswith() 方法用于检查字符串是否是以指定子字符串开头，如果是则返回 True，否则返回 False。如果参数 beg 和 end 指定值，则在指定范围内检查

 ```python
>>> s = "strstringstring"
>>> s.startswith('s')
True
>>> s.startswith('t',1)
True
>>> s.startswith('a',2,3)
False
 ```

str.strip([chars])

Return a copy of the string with the leading and trailing characters removed. The chars argument is a string specifying the set of characters to be removed. If omitted or None, the chars argument defaults to removing whitespace. The chars argument is not a prefix or suffix; rather, all combinations of its values are stripped:

strip() 方法用于移除字符串头尾指定的字符（默认为空格）.

```python
>>> s = "  apple "
>>> s.strip()
'apple'
>>> s = "aaaappleaa"
>>> s.strip('a')
'pple'
>>> s.strip()
'aaaappleaa'
```

str.swapcase()

Return a copy of the string with uppercase characters converted to lowercase and vice versa. Note that it is not necessarily true that s.swapcase().swapcase() == s. 

swapcase() 方法用于对字符串的大小写字母进行转换。

```python
>>> s = "AppLE"
>>> s.swapcase()
'aPPle'
```

str.title()

Return a titlecased version of the string where words start with an uppercase character and the remaining characters are lowercase.

title() 方法返回"标题化"的字符串,就是说所有单词都是以大写开始，其余字母均为小写(见 istitle())。

```python
>>> s = "this is me"
>>> s.title()
'This Is Me'
>>> s = "This -is-me"
>>> s.title()
'This -Is-Me'
```

str.translate(table)

Return a copy of the string in which each character has been mapped through the given translation table. The table must be an object that implements indexing via __getitem__(), typically a mapping or sequence. When indexed by a Unicode ordinal (an integer), the table object can do any of the following: return a Unicode ordinal or a string, to map the character to one or more other characters; return None, to delete the character from the return string; or raise a LookupError exception, to map the character to itself.

You can use str.maketrans() to create a translation map from character-to-character mappings in different formats.

See also the codecs module for a more flexible approach to custom character mappings.

 translate() 方法根据参数table给出的表(包含 256 个字符)转换字符串的字符, 要过滤掉的字符放到 del 参数中。

```python
>>> a = 'a'
>>> b = 'b'
>>> tran = str.maketrans(a,b)
>>> s = "apple"
>>> str.translate(tran)
'-'
>>> s.translate(tran)
'bpple'
```

str.upper()

Return a copy of the string with all the cased characters [4] converted to uppercase. Note that str.upper().isupper() might be False if s contains uncased characters or if the Unicode category of the resulting character(s) is not “Lu” (Letter, uppercase), but e.g. “Lt” (Letter, titlecase).

The uppercasing algorithm used is described in section 3.13 of the Unicode Standard.

upper() 方法将字符串中的小写字母转为大写字母。

```python
>>> s = 'this is %me'
>>> s.upper()
'THIS IS %ME'
```

str.zfill(width)

Return a copy of the string left filled with ASCII '0' digits to make a string of length width. A leading sign prefix ('+'/'-') is handled by inserting the padding after the sign character rather than before. The original string is returned if width is less than or equal to len(s).

zfill() 方法返回指定长度的字符串，原字符串右对齐，前面填充0。

```python
>>> s = "this is string"
>>> s.zfill(5)
'this is string'
>>> s.zfill(50)
'000000000000000000000000000000000000this is string'
>>> s.zfill(30)
'0000000000000000this is string'
```

4.7.2. printf-style String Formatting

```bash
Note The formatting operations described here exhibit a variety of quirks that lead to a number of common errors (such as failing to display tuples and dictionaries correctly). Using the newer str.format() interface helps avoid these errors, and also provides a generally more powerful, flexible and extensible approach to formatting text.
```

```python
>>> print('%(language)s has %(number)03d quote types.' %
...       {'language': "Python", "number": 2})
Python has 002 quote types.
```

Conversion | Meaning | Notes
---- | ---- | ----
'd'	|Signed integer decimal.	 
'i'	|Signed integer decimal.	 
'o'	|Signed octal value.	|(1)
'u'	|Obsolete type – it is identical to 'd'.	|(6)
'x'	|Signed hexadecimal (lowercase).	|(2)
'X'	|Signed hexadecimal (uppercase).	|(2)
'e' |Floating point exponential format (lowercase).	|(3)
'E'	|Floating point exponential format (uppercase).	|(3)
'f'	|Floating point decimal format.	|(3)
'F'	|Floating point decimal format.	|(3)
'g'	|Floating point format. Uses lowercase exponential format if exponent is less than -4 or not |less than precision, decimal format otherwise.	|(4)
'G'	|Floating point format. Uses uppercase exponential format if exponent is less than -4 or not |less than precision, decimal format otherwise.	|(4)
'c'	|Single character (accepts integer or single character string).	 
'r'	|String (converts any Python object using repr()).	|(5)
's'	|String (converts any Python object using str()).	|(5)
'a'	|String (converts any Python object using ascii()).	|(5)
'%'	|No argument is converted, results in a '%' character in the result.	 


Notes:

1. The alternate form causes a leading octal specifier ('0o') to be inserted before the first digit.

2. The alternate form causes a leading '0x' or '0X' (depending on whether the 'x' or 'X' format was used) to be inserted before the first digit.

3. The alternate form causes the result to always contain a decimal point, even if no digits follow it.
The precision determines the number of digits after the decimal point and defaults to 6.

4. The alternate form causes the result to always contain a decimal point, and trailing zeroes are not removed as they would otherwise be.
The precision determines the number of significant digits before and after the decimal point and defaults to 6.

5. If precision is N, the output is truncated to N characters.

6. See PEP 237.